This article is about the main and original version of the superhero. For other uses, see Spider-Man (disambiguation). For other versions, see List of incarnations of Spider-Man and Alternative versions of Spider-Man.
"Peter Parker" redirects here. For other uses, see Peter Parker (disambiguation).
"Web Slinger" and "Webslinger" redirect here. For an alternate version of Spider-Man with this code name, see Alternative versions of Spider-Man § Web-Slinger (Earth-31913).
Spider-Man
A drawing of Spider-Man crouched, looking up to the camera stricking a pose on a street-sign
Virgin cover of Web of Spider-Man #129.1
(October 2012), by Mike McKone and Morry Hollowell
Publication information
Publisher	Marvel Comics
First appearance	Amazing Fantasy #15
(August 1962)
Created by	Stan Lee
Steve Ditko
In-story information
Alter ego	Peter Benjamin Parker
Place of origin	Queens, New York City
Team affiliations	
Avengers
Fantastic Four
Secret Defenders
Future Foundation
Daily Bugle
Heroes for Hire
Mighty Avengers
New Avengers
Spider-Army / Web-Warriors
Partnerships	
Black Cat
Miles Morales
Silk
Abilities	
Superhuman strength, speed, agility, reflexes, stamina, and durability
Ability to cling to solid surfaces
Precognitive spider-sense
Genius-level intellect
Skilled martial artist and hand-to-hand combatant
Proficient scientist and engineer
Utilizes wrist-mounted web-shooters
Spider-Man is a superhero in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist Steve Ditko, he first appeared in the anthology comic book Amazing Fantasy #15 (August 1962) in the Silver Age of Comic Books. Widely regarded as one of the most popular and commercially successful superheroes, he has been featured in comic books, television shows, films, video games, novels, and plays.

Spider-Man's secret identity is Peter Benjamin Parker, who was raised by his Aunt May and Uncle Ben in Queens, New York City, after the death of his parents. Lee, Ditko, and later writers had the character deal with the struggles of adolescence and young adulthood. Readers identified with his self-doubt and loneliness. Unlike previous teen heroes, Spider-Man was not a sidekick nor did he have a mentor. He would be given many supporting characters. These include his Daily Bugle boss, J. Jonah Jameson; friends Harry Osborn and Flash Thompson